#Challenge-5: [ACP-120 Jira Cloud Administration]
---------------------------------------------------->

Search And Reporting:
--------------------->

You need to create filters and dashboards to report on the current state of work and to review past performance. 
These are the questions that should be on the forefront while searching and reporting. 

1. What are some frequently used gadgets and what configuration options do they have?

2. Which ones show historical information?

3. Which gadgets will display different information depending on the user viewing them?

4. What are the parts of a JQL query?

5. How can multiple clauses in a JQL query impact the results returned?

6. What are all the reasons that the same shared filter can show different results to different users?

7. Which JQL functions will present results relative to the user or the user’s timezone?

8. Explore filter subscriptions. Who can create a private or group filter subscriptions? What kind of schedule can be set? 
Will users always receive the same results? Can you email a subscription even if there are no results found?

Solution:
----------->

1. What are some frequently used gadgets and what configuration options do they have?
Jira dashboards are composed of gadgets that display different types of information. Some frequently used gadgets include:

Filter Results:
Displays issues returned by a saved filter.
Configuration options: Saved filter, number of issues, columns to display, auto-refresh interval.

Issue Statistics:
Groups issues based on a selected field (e.g., Assignee, Status, Priority).
Configuration options: Saved filter, statistic type (field to group by), auto-refresh interval.

Pie Chart:
Visualizes issue distribution based on a selected field.
Configuration options: Saved filter, statistic type, chart display options.

Created vs. Resolved Chart
Shows trends of issues created vs. resolved over time.
Configuration options: Saved filter, period (daily/weekly/monthly), auto-refresh interval.

Two-Dimensional Filter Statistics
Displays issue statistics in a table format with two selected fields.
Configuration options: Saved filter, X-axis field, Y-axis field.

Sprint Health Gadget
Summarizes the current sprint's progress and key metrics.
Configuration options: Board/sprint selection.

Sprint Burndown Chart
Shows progress toward sprint completion.
Configuration options: Board, sprint selection.

Velocity Chart
Compares committed vs. completed story points across multiple sprints.
Configuration options: Board selection.

2. Which ones show historical information?
Gadgets that display historical trends include:

Created vs. Resolved Chart – Tracks issue creation vs. resolution over time.
Sprint Burndown Chart – Shows how work is progressing in a sprint.
Velocity Chart – Displays past sprint performance.
Control Chart – Shows cycle time trends over past issues.
Cumulative Flow Diagram – Displays issue flow across statuses over time.
These gadgets help teams analyze past performance and identify trends or bottlenecks.

3. Which gadgets will display different information depending on the user viewing them?
Some gadgets display user-specific information:

Assigned to Me Gadget – Shows issues assigned to the logged-in user.
Watched Issues Gadget – Displays issues the logged-in user is watching.
Activity Stream – Shows user activity updates based on permissions.
Favorite Filters Gadget – Displays the favorite filters of the logged-in user.
Additionally, gadgets based on filters with dynamic JQL functions (like currentUser()) will show different results depending on the user.

4. What are the parts of a JQL query?
A JQL query consists of:

Fields – The issue attributes being searched (e.g., status, assignee, project).
Operators – Define conditions (=, !=, IN, NOT IN, >, <, ~, etc.).
Values – Specific criteria to match (e.g., Open, John Doe).
Keywords – Logical connectors (AND, OR, ORDER BY).
Functions – Dynamic values (currentUser(), startOfMonth(), endOfWeek(), etc.).
Example query:

JQL
project = "Marketing" AND status = "In Progress" AND assignee = currentUser() ORDER BY priority DESC

5. How can multiple clauses in a JQL query impact the results returned?
Using AND – Narrows results (all conditions must be true).
Using OR – Expands results (at least one condition must be true).
Combining AND and OR – Must use parentheses to avoid confusion.
Using NOT – Excludes specific results.
Example:

JQL
project = "Dev Team" AND (status = "To Do" OR assignee = "Alice")
This finds issues in the "Dev Team" project that are either To Do or assigned to Alice.

6. What are all the reasons that the same shared filter can show different results to different users?
Permissions on issues – Users only see issues they have permission to view.
Project permissions – Some users may not have access to certain projects.
Filter permissions – Even if a filter is shared, the issues inside may not be visible to all users.
Dynamic JQL functions – currentUser(), myProjects(), etc., return different values per user.
Field-level permissions – Some fields may be hidden for certain users.

7. Which JQL functions will present results relative to the user or the user’s timezone?

User-dependent functions:
currentUser() – Issues assigned to or reported by the logged-in user.
membersOf("group") – Issues assigned to users in a specific group.

Time-dependent functions:
startOfDay(), endOfDay()
startOfWeek(), endOfWeek()
startOfMonth(), endOfMonth()
now()
These functions adjust based on the user’s timezone settings in Jira.

Example:

created >= startOfMonth() AND created <= endOfMonth()
This finds all issues created this month, adjusting to the user’s timezone.

8. Explore filter subscriptions. Who can create a private or group filter subscription? What kind of schedule can be set? Will users always 
receive the same results? Can you email a subscription even if there are no results found?

Filter Subscriptions:
A filter subscription sends automatic email updates based on a saved filter.

Who can create them?
Any user can create a private subscription for personal use.
A filter shared with a group can be subscribed to by that group.

Scheduling options:
Daily, weekly, monthly, or specific intervals.
Options for business days only.
Can be triggered at a specific time (e.g., 8:00 AM).

Will users always receive the same results?
No. Results may vary because:
Issues may be updated/closed.
Some users may not have permission to view certain issues.
Dynamic JQL functions (currentUser(), startOfDay()) may yield different results.

Can you email a subscription even if there are no results?
By default, Jira does not send an email if there are no results.
However, some versions/settings allow forced emails even with no results.
Example: A filter subscription that emails a report of all unresolved critical issues every morning.

JQL
project = "IT Support" AND priority = "Critical" AND resolution IS EMPTY ORDER BY created DESC
